---
title: Pa11y 5.0.0
description: Announcing the stable release of Pa11y 5!
date: 2018-02-15 15:00:00
---

Today we're proud to announce the stable release of Pa11y 5! A lot of hard work's gone into this release from the existing team as well as some new contributors.

We maintain a [full migration guide](https://github.com/pa11y/pa11y/blob/master/MIGRATION.md#migrating-from-40-to-50) to help you switch from Pa11y 4.x, but we'll highlight some of the features we're excited about here.

If you just want to get started, you can run the following:

```sh
npm install -g pa11y@latest
```

As always, thanks for continuing to support Pa11y :heart: we're glad to have you with us as we work towards a more accessible web.


## Headless Chrome

Pa11y 5 switches from PhantomJS to [Headless Chrome](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/04/headless-chrome). This allows us to use more modern JavaScript APIs and make Pa11y testing more stable.


## Node.js Support

Pa11y 5 only supports Node.js v8.0.0 and higher, you'll need to upgrade to be able to use the latest version. We'll be supporting Pa11y 4.x for the next 6 months (or more if some community members are struggling to upgrade), and Node.js 6.x stops being maintained 6 months after that.


## New Actions

We've added several new actions in Pa11y 5, which became a lot easier (or possible) to implement with the move to Headless Chrome.

### Screen Capture

As well as being able to take a screen-grab of the page before Pa11y runs, you can now take multiple screen-grabs by using actions. For example:

```json
{
    "actions": [
        "screen capture before-login.png",
        "set field #username to pa11y-fan-2k18",
        "set field #password to ilovepa11y",
        "click element #login",
        "wait for path to not be /login",
        "screen capture after-login.png"
    ]
}
```

### Navigation

You can now use an action to navigate around a site before running the Pa11y tests. This allows you to perform actions on other pages that you might need in order to fully test your original page. For example:

```json
{
    "actions": [
        "navigate to http://example.com/page-that-sets-a-cookie",
        "navigate to http://example.com/page-you-want-to-test"
    ]
}
```


## Warnings and Notices

Pa11y 5 ignores warnings and notices by default, as these are not usually actionable or useful in automated testing.

You can force Pa11y to include warnings and notices again by using the `--include-notices` and `--include-warnings` command-line flags, or the `includeNotices` and `includeWarnings` options.


## Logging

When you run Pa11y with the `--debug` flag, you can now see any console logs from the page you're testing. This can help with debugging, to ensure that Pa11y is testing the page that you expect.


## Promises

Pa11y is now completely [`Promise`-based](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), and uses [`async`/`await`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) internally. This means the API has changed significantly. This is best expressed in code:

```js
pa11y('http://example.com/').then((results) => {
    // ...
});
```

```js
const results = await pa11y('http://example.com/');
```
